CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing guidelines
Here are a couple things to take into account when contributing to swizzin.

## Directories and files
- Please use `/opt` to install any new software. **Avoid using home directories to install application binaries/source**
- When creating configuration for users, please add it to an appropriate folder under `~/.config/` when possible
- Please make sure to put any necessary code output into the default log files for swizzin, (i.e. `swizzin.log` and `install.log` under `/root/logs`) *including* the `stderr`
- Make sure to create `.lock` files for your application under `/install/`
  - Record any application information that might need to be dynamically retrieved into the .lock file above.

## Bash code styleguide
### Shellcheck
Please use `shellcheck` and its IDE plugins and resolve any warnings for the code you have contributed.

### Code re-use
Please familiarise yourself with the functions available under `sources/functions` as they handle a large amount of steps you might need to do manually.

Whenever you are contributing code that might be generalized and useful for other applications, please add the functions to this location. When doing so, please give a quick comment into the file on what the purpose and possible return output is. e.g:
```bash
# Retrieves all users that are managed by swizzin
# Returns usernames separated by newline
```
### Return codes
Please use `exit 1` or `return 1` when handling exiting due to some run-time errors

### Codename-based logic
When making logic based on distribution codenames, please structure it in such a way that introduces as little need for maintenance in the future as possible.

A practical example for this is handling packages that are no longer packaged for newer LTS releases. In such scenarios, please make it so that the "default" behaviour is for newer LTS releases, and the older LTS releases are treated as the outliers. e.g.:
```bash
if [[ $codename =~ ("xenial"|"stretch") ]]; then
  mcrypt=php-mcrypt
else
  mcrypt=
fi

# Apt install line which has $mcrypt in the package list

```
In this example, the default (`else`) behaviour triggers for current releases, and only the old ones have the modified behaviour

## APT handling
We have developed our own internal set of functions for handling `apt` packages in a predictable and uniform way. In the event any of these functions encounter an error, they will (with default behaviour) ensure the rest of the script will not continue. Please use the following functions and see the available options. **Refrain from calling the raw apt equivalents of the functions below.** 

### Functions
* Exported and box-wide available functions. By default, the functions perform `apt-get update`s for you if the database is too old (more than 1h), runs sanity checks before installs, and checks logs for errors so the script is killed in case something went wrong. These can all be overrode with the options below.
  * `apt_install [options] $1, $2, $3 ... [options]`
  * `apt_remove [options] $1, $2, $3 ... [options]`
  * `apt_autoremove`
  * `apt_upgrade [options]`
  * `apt_update [options]`
* Non-exported functions which need a `source` or a `. .../apt`. Please consult the `sources/functions/apt` file to see what they do and how they work.
  * `get_candidate_version`
  * `_get_apt_last_log`
  * `check_installed`
  * ... and a couple others

**FYI the default behaviour in most of the functions is to not issue `apt update` in case the last update was within an hour** with the exception of `apt_update`, which will always perform an update. It is therefore fine to issue an `apt_update` and an `apt_install`, as the update will only run once.

### Options
The following options can be used with any of the exported functions above to override their default behaviour.

* `--interactive`
  * Run the installation stdout in the forefront and allow any end-user interaction if necessary
  * WARNING: This is not yet fully tested
* `--skip-check`
  * Skips integrity checks during the command such as `dpkg` lock checking, `apt --simulate`, and a couple others.
* `--ignore-errors`
  * Allows script to continue in case an error was encountered, instead of killing the job script by default
* `--purge`
  * _Only for `apt_remove`_: performs the removal with the `--purge` flag sent to the `apt-get remove` command.
* `--recommends`
  * _Only for `apt_install`_: performs the installation with the `--install-recommends` flag sent to the `apt-get install` command.

## Python applications
As a principle, please avoid installing Python2 applications. 

Due to how Python is being versioned, please see the python functions available in `sources/function/python`.

Please use virtual environments only for applications that require a specific or an outdated version of Python.

## Service files
Please include service files for application management. Use the `%i` feature for multi-user applications, avoid for single-instance applications.

## User management
Whenever possible, please describe how is user management done within your application, and how you have adjusted `box` to handle this.

## Documentation
For new applications, please make sure to make the necessary documentation pages on the [Swizzin Docs](https://github.com/liaralabs/docs.swizzin.ltd) repo. It's nice and convenient when you include the link to the Documentation repo PR in the PR here.

Commit message:

A word on how to make things cmopliant with the unattended setup

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing guidelines
Here are a couple things to take into account when contributing to swizzin.

## Directories and files
- Please use `/opt` to install any new software. **Avoid using home directories to install application binaries/source**
- When creating configuration for users, please add it to an appropriate folder under `~/.config/` when possible
- Please make sure to put any necessary code output into the default log files for swizzin, (i.e. `swizzin.log` and `install.log` under `/root/logs`) *including* the `stderr`
- Make sure to create `.lock` files for your application under `/install/`
  - Record any application information that might need to be dynamically retrieved into the .lock file above.

## Bash code styleguide
### Shellcheck
Please use `shellcheck` and its IDE plugins and resolve any warnings for the code you have contributed.

### Code re-use
Please familiarise yourself with the functions available under `sources/functions` as they handle a large amount of steps you might need to do manually.

Whenever you are contributing code that might be generalized and useful for other applications, please add the functions to this location. When doing so, please give a quick comment into the file on what the purpose and possible return output is. e.g:
```bash
# Retrieves all users that are managed by swizzin
# Returns usernames separated by newline
```
### Return codes
Please use `exit 1` or `return 1` when handling exiting due to some run-time errors

### Codename-based logic
When making logic based on distribution codenames, please structure it in such a way that introduces as little need for maintenance in the future as possible.

A practical example for this is handling packages that are no longer packaged for newer LTS releases. In such scenarios, please make it so that the "default" behaviour is for newer LTS releases, and the older LTS releases are treated as the outliers. e.g.:
```bash
if [[ $codename =~ ("xenial"|"stretch") ]]; then
  mcrypt=php-mcrypt
else
  mcrypt=
fi

# Apt install line which has $mcrypt in the package list

```
In this example, the default (`else`) behaviour triggers for current releases, and only the old ones have the modified behaviour

## Handling interactivity
Please make sure your scripts are compatible with the custom/unattended installation options through environment variables. This means that there should be a scenario in your script, where no interaction is necessary if necessary variables are available before the script started.

Please stick to the following:
- Pre-fix your variables with the name of the application to prevent collisions, e.g. `$APPLICATION_VARIABLE`
- Ensure your script is checking the existance of the variable before triggering anything interactive, so that the scripts can skip over things if they are supplied through options.
  - e.g. `if [[ -z $APPLICATION_VARIABLE ]]; then read $APPLICATION_VARIABLE; fi`
  - e.g. `while [[ -z $APPLICATION_VARIABLE ]]; do [...] APPLICATION_VARIABLE=$verified-value [...] ; done`
- Appropriately document the varaibles in the docs repo

## APT handling
We have developed our own internal set of functions for handling `apt` packages in a predictable and uniform way. In the event any of these functions encounter an error, they will (with default behaviour) ensure the rest of the script will not continue. Please use the following functions and see the available options. **Refrain from calling the raw apt equivalents of the functions below.** 

### Functions
* Exported and box-wide available functions. By default, the functions perform `apt-get update`s for you if the database is too old (more than 1h), runs sanity checks before installs, and checks logs for errors so the script is killed in case something went wrong. These can all be overrode with the options below.
  * `apt_install [options] $1, $2, $3 ... [options]`
  * `apt_remove [options] $1, $2, $3 ... [options]`
  * `apt_autoremove`
  * `apt_upgrade [options]`
  * `apt_update [options]`
* Non-exported functions which need a `source` or a `. .../apt`. Please consult the `sources/functions/apt` file to see what they do and how they work.
  * `get_candidate_version`
  * `_get_apt_last_log`
  * `check_installed`
  * ... and a couple others

**FYI the default behaviour in most of the functions is to not issue `apt update` in case the last update was within an hour** with the exception of `apt_update`, which will always perform an update. It is therefore fine to issue an `apt_update` and an `apt_install`, as the update will only run once.

### Options
The following options can be used with any of the exported functions above to override their default behaviour.

* `--interactive`
  * Run the installation stdout in the forefront and allow any end-user interaction if necessary
  * WARNING: This is not yet fully tested
* `--skip-check`
  * Skips integrity checks during the command such as `dpkg` lock checking, `apt --simulate`, and a couple others.
* `--ignore-errors`
  * Allows script to continue in case an error was encountered, instead of killing the job script by default
* `--purge`
  * _Only for `apt_remove`_: performs the removal with the `--purge` flag sent to the `apt-get remove` command.
* `--recommends`
  * _Only for `apt_install`_: performs the installation with the `--install-recommends` flag sent to the `apt-get install` command.

## Python applications
As a principle, please avoid installing Python2 applications. 

Due to how Python is being versioned, please see the python functions available in `sources/function/python`.

Please use virtual environments only for applications that require a specific or an outdated version of Python.

## Service files
Please include service files for application management. Use the `%i` feature for multi-user applications, avoid for single-instance applications.

## User management
Whenever possible, please describe how is user management done within your application, and how you have adjusted `box` to handle this.

## Documentation
For new applications, please make sure to make the necessary documentation pages on the [Swizzin Docs](https://github.com/liaralabs/docs.swizzin.ltd) repo. It's nice and convenient when you include the link to the Documentation repo PR in the PR here.
